Some accuse the Bible of being
a collection of myths
and legends written
by well-intentioned humans.
By contrast, the Bible says
that it is “the word of God,”
“who cannot lie.”
If the Bible was authored by God,
it should be like no other book ever written.
For example,
when it mentions scientific matters,
what it says should be in harmony
with proved science.
When it foretells the future, its prophecies
should come true 100 percent of the time.
And if the Bible contains
God’s message to mankind,
it should be available
no matter where a person lives
and no matter what is done
to stop its distribution.
Is the Bible full of myths,
or is it accurate?
Consider just some of the evidence
indicating that the Bible is truly
an extraordinary and trustworthy book.
During the time when the Bible was written,
many people had mistaken ideas
about the shape of the earth.
A theory written
after the Bible was completed
was that the universe emerged
from a cosmic egg
and that the earth
was supported by various creatures.
In contrast, about the year 1473 B.C.E.,
Moses wrote that the earth
is suspended “upon nothing.”
And around the year 732 B.C.E.,
the prophet Isaiah wrote that the earth
is a circle, or sphere.
These Bible writers contradicted ideas
that were popular at the time.
It was some 200 years after Isaiah’s day
that the Greek philosopher Pythagoras
may have proposed that the earth is a sphere.
And more than 3,000 years passed
from Moses’ writings until scientists
such as Isaac Newton
realized that the earth seemed
to hang upon nothing.
No human can foretell
the future in exact detail.
Yet, about the year 732 B.C.E.,
the prophet Isaiah foretold
that a man named Cyrus
would conquer the mighty city of Babylon,
that he would “dry up” a river,
and that he would enter the city
through open gates.
History confirms that every detail
of this prophecy was fulfilled.
Concerning the same city,
the prophet Jeremiah
foretold that Babylon
would “become piles of stones”
and “never again be inhabited.”
Despite its strategic location,
Babylon eventually became
a pile of stones and remains that way!
Throughout history, powerful men
have tried to stop the distribution
or translation of the Bible.
They burned at the stake
those who translated it
into common languages
and persecuted those who read it.
The Bible has weathered the most
sustained attack of any book in history.
Yet, it has become the most widely translated
and published book of all time.
Billions of copies have been produced
in some 2,700 languages.
The Bible is scientifically accurate,
contains reliable prophecy,
and is available to all mankind.
You have good reason to believe
that it is inspired by Jehovah,
the God who cannot lie.
Still, you may ask:
‘Is the Bible still relevant today?
‘Why are there so many
different versions of the Bible?
What are the keys
to understanding the Bible?’
To learn more about what the Bible says
on this and many other topics,
go to jw.org.